
=== #33 Resource Management (2040) @ Cairo, Egypt
The world had overall become a better place, with more available food, miracle cures for all kinds of medical problems, cleaner energy solutions, highly advanced but complex transport systems, and an abundance of machinery helping on all kinds of tasks around the world. But with these perks, came complexity, and with all of these resources available, the global population also grew immensely. Humanity would soon become overwhelmed by the task of managing all of these sectors on a global scale the traditional way. It was here when God Ais got conceptualized. Highly advanced artificial intelligence systems will be developed across the world. While most AIs were limited by their processing and resources, a God program was designed to have full global control and authority over specific aspects of industry in modern society. Among many others, there was Xibalbá, in Mexico City, charged with the management of energy equity across the region. Chernobog in Helsinki, Finland, with a high focus on global security and international affairs. Macaria from Brigeport, Connecticut, in charge of communication systems across the States, and the most infamous of them all, Anubis from Cairo, Egypt, made to pursue ecological solutions for the preservation of life. On a smaller scale, less complex AIs were also established to control local traffic, stocking stores, and manage public work projects, among other things, while on a global level, the God Programs handled these resources and many more with an international perspective in mind, ensuring equity, efficiency and progress. While their power allowed humanity to take a back seat as the world moved forward, many skeptics worried that these God programs were given too much power, and had too much leeway to make decisions, and to calm these fears. Each God Ai was under a constant feedback loop by a dedicated team of programmers that provided its maintenance and supervision, allowing humanity to catch any possible mistakes or concerning choices before it was too late.

=== #181 Hostage (2068) @ Akihabara, Japan
Overwatch had taken down the Shimada clan, but in doing so it merely caused a power vacuum in the Kanezaka region. The illegal activities were not the only priority of the clan, as they also saw themselves as the protectors of Kanezaka for generations. In the words of their late leader, if the relationship the clan has with the people of the region is anything less than mutually beneficial, they were nothing more than a parasite. This social contract had stood strong for generations, as the Shimada kept larger, more dangerous gangs at bay, but as their empire crumbled and their operations became more openly shady, the people turned their backs on them, only to soon realize they were the lesser of two evils. The Hashimoto clan had long been the main rival crime family to the Shimada, and after Overwatch left, they began a takeover of Kanezaka, placing Keigo Kuroura in charge of overseeing the region. As a stronger, more stable group, Overwatch did not have the same level of leverage against them that they did with the Shimada, so they were essentially able to reign uncontested. In spite of this, however, the Hashimoto quickly realized there was one potential threat lingering after the fall of the Shimada, the Yamagami Blades, particularly Toshiro himself, who was responsible for the powerful weaponry that allowed the Shimada to hold their ground for so long. The clan act quickly, kidnapping Toshiro and forcing him to supply their syndicate with Anima weapons of their own. Alone and with her hands tied, Asa saw no other choice but to send Kiriko away, changing her last name to Kamori, Asa's birth name, and taking her to live with her grandmother to protect her from the clan. While he was a hostage, Toshiro had not yet surrendered himself fully to the Hashimoto. The man would agree to their demands for Anima weapons to keep himself alive, but he purposely butchered his own work, producing dismal blades with unstable Anima fields, effectively declawing the wielders from the potential danger they could pose. The clan took notice of the poor quality of his work, so Lady Shion decided to use her pupil as leverage. Mizuki was still too young and weak to take part in criminal activities, but Shion believed that Toshiro might pick up the slack if the boy was endangered. Mizuki kept Toshiro company, and in return, Toshiro's kindness was able to balance his harsh walk of life as he got older and began to take part in clan duties. But on the other hand, Shion's discipline was unforgiving. The Omnic would often seriously injure the boy during their training, in part to set an example for Toshiro. It would get to a point where Mizuki's arm would be cut off. In spite of this, poor Mizuki was too naive and able to see good in people even when there was nothing but harm. Shion was cruel but also caring. She actively hurt him, but he could tell she wanted him to improve and get stronger. This messy relationship kept Mizuki willingly chained down by the Hashimoto for years, as he believed he had no other way to evade his curse.

=== #169 When Dragons Fall (2066) @ Hanamura, Japan
After years of pushback from many governments, and seeing the sucess of their continous "vacations" Reyes approached Morrison with the idea of expanding his division to deal with more questionable operations, taking care of things outside of the protocol and away from the public eye. With Morrion's approval, Blackwatch as we know it, was born. The small cover up division Reyes had been running expanded into a midsize initiative, expanding with several bases and gaining recruitment under Amari's selection. During these hirings, many people who would have otherwise not passed Overwatch's regular screenings would go on to become part of Reyes' staff, often kept secret from Ana and Jack. Perhaps the most well known of these fringe hires was Genji Shimada. Overwatch was keeping an eye on the Shimada clan for years, but their influence in the Kanezaka region made them hard to take down legally. That was until the assassination of the clan leader, Sojiro Shimada, at the hands of a rival gang, the Hashimoto. Ever since his death, the clan began to expand its criminal activities, and their carelessness marked them as a target for Overwatch to take down. During initial scouting and intel gathering, Ziegler and Sarioglu were notified of a man who had been critically injured. The man turned out to be Genji Shimada, heir to the clan, and was taken into Overwatch's care as a potential valuable source of information. Following his father's death, the elders of the clan took control and began to put pressure on his older brother, Hanzo, to take control as the new leader. For the longest time, Genji took little interest in the illegal activities of the clan so the elders considered him a liability and resented Sojiro's softness, so when Hanzo took control of the clan, they instructed him to straighten up his own brother. Genji refused, and tensions grew between the two brothers, building to a violent confrontation with a blade which left Genji on the verge of death. After hearing his story, Gabriel Reyes pitched him the idea of joining forces. If Genji agreed to work with Blackwatch to take down the rest of the Clan, Overwatch could rebuild his body with cybernetics. Angela Ziegler, the head of the medical division and the one in charge of Genji's care, objected to the coercion of his patient, but Genji, enraged by what his brother had done and without much of a choice in his mutilated state, accepted the offer. Ziegler was opposed to the procedure, worrying about the weaponizing of the augmentations she would need to develop for Genji, but ultimately committed when given the direct order to do so. With the full scope of the medical team, Ziegler replaced the man's falling organs with cybernetics, mostly based on the ones Sojourn herself relied on. Once he was stable, they began to augment his body and turned him into a living weapon. Genji and Angela formed a very close bond over the several months that passed during the procedure, and this connection was pivotal in Genji's future reassignment to the strike team.

=== #191 The Oslo Attack (2068) @ Oslo, Norway
After the Shimada takedown, Cassidy had been reassigned outside of Blackwatch, to temporarily run security at the Oslo laboratories, guarding Project: Echo. His status as a cover agent and Liao's own worries with Overwatch made her wary of him at first, but at the same time she was a fierce opponent of pigeonholder, and judging people via a checklist. With time she saw through Cassidy's cowboy persona, and got to meeth im for the funny, loyal, and clever man that he was, what is more he was willing to keep Liao's research and the extend of Echo's intelligence as a secret between the two of them. When Echo was on her early stashes, she began to rech out to personnel, seeking additional input, this is how she first approached Cassidy, who interacted with her as if she were a fully fleshed person. Liao noted in her records that one time during Testing, Echo eliminated the wrong target and exhibited signs of distress, only for Cassidy to descalate the situation, reassuring her that everyone made mistakes, but what mattered is how they made their way through the world. This lead to Echo and Cassidy stablishing conversation and exchanging jokes, causing Echo to laugh for the first time. Cassidy's casual approach changed Liao's views on Echo, which sped up development now that she began to see her less as an apology for what happened with Aurora, and more like a child like intelligence that needed guidance to improve. One tragic night, the Oslo facility was rocket by multiple explosives. Cassidy was present but outside of the laboratory, as he had to attend a strategy meeting, so at the time Liao and Echo were alone inside of the building when the attack happened. The epxlosions knocked Cassidy away, but left him uninjured, as he rushed to the lab, he found Liao severely wounded, succubing to her injuries soon after, he sat with her while she died. Liao would be buried with full honors as the attack was being investigated, her funeral was attended by Mondatta himself, and many other Shambali. Following her death, many monks entered a voluntary full year of silence, as an act of mourning. Liao lived a life trying to make up for a series of events out of her control, in Mondatta's own words during his speech, "She sought the universal truth, she sought to repay a debt not her own, which had never been hers to pay, but which weighed on her thoughs until the end. We can only pray she is now at peace". Cassidy did not attend the funeral, as he had turned his attention to hunt her killers In her absensce, Echo would be brought online in her unfinished state, to test her performance in field missions. While her AI continued to grow and evolve her capabilities and intelligence, Overwatch personnel feared that she could absorb the wrong input without adequate management, which limited her use within the organization and eventually led to her deactivation when Overwatch was shut down.

=== #142 Ecological Initiative (2056) @ Apia, Samoa
With God programs being gone, the responsibility of their duties fell back on humanity once more, and while in a lot of cases their functionality was rerouted or essentially taken over by other organizations, in some cases, such as environmental duties, they started to become heavily neglected. Anubis was meant to be used for ecological preservation, and yet with most infrastructure lost, the whole left by the program began to become apparent to Hector and Claudio. The Martins were long time environmentalist advocates, and they believed that Overwatch could be used to improve the world, so they took a proposal to Morrison and the UN to create a specialized Watchpoint branch. The Ecopoint Program would create stations staffed with Overwatch's scientific leads in critical locations across the globe, where they could monitor ongoing abnormalities in nature and aid in global efforts for preservation of the environment. In spite of a wave of nationalism and distrust for Overwatch presence hitting many countries over the years, the Ecopoints were quite a welcomed proposal, as the Martins were highly respected names in the international communities they worked with, and the benefits of scientifically-oriented bases were far more self-evident than the more generalist and often military nature of Watchpoints. With the approval of the program, other big names like Mui and Namuaca quickly joined, adding further credibility to the initiative. In the end, seven initial bases were approved, with more coming later. Ecopoint: Antartica focused on monitoring the impacts of climate change and pursuing methods of recovery of both the atmosphere and the ice caps, as well as studying strange fluctuations found around the Peninsula. Samoa would receive a base within one of the active volcanoes, to focus on seismic monitoring and geothermal research, detecting multiple major earthquakes in the region and saving countless lives. Ecopoint: Connemara focused on the restoration of Irish boglands, later on collaborating with Russian scientists to aid in revitalizing the Siberian lowlands. Ecopoint: Osa in Costa Rica would focus on the recovery of reptiles and amphibians of the Corcovado cloud forest, seen as a bellwether of the rest of the natural world, focusing primarily on antifungals and biological solutions to waste treatment. Ecopoint: Zelandia off the coast of New Zeland would exist in response to the Australian fall-out zone, focusing on filtering radiation and aiding in the recovery of Oceania following the ALF's attack. Ecopoint: Tarapoto, deep within the Colombian Amazon, was built to study the many ecosystems of the area. And lastly, Ecopoint: Monterrey, a submarine base off the shore of California, meant to research marine life and follow protocols originally proposed by Leon Honisch to aid in the recovery of many species. The program was overall seen as one of Overwatch's most clean-cut successes and net positives to society at large, and a great example of the good they could do for the world

=== #178 Biolight (2060) @ Roshani, India
As Niran grew older, he would use his parent's wealth to travel the world during his breaks from the architecture academy. While exploring the wilderness of the globe, he was able to experience the turmoil that existed in the world outside his bubble of wealth. Animals and forests dying, in part due to Vishkar's own expansion, war, illness and poverty everywhere he looked, with people who needed help being actively ignored, entire communities riddled with pain. Niran became determined to use his talents to fix the world, and began to experiment with healing applications of hardlight. After months of research at the Architech Academy, Niran used his knowledge and fascination of botany. Niran would push the limits of hardlight design into something new entirely. A self-replicating biomass made from hardlight. A living, organic material manifested from light structures, capable of repairing tissue near its light in the blink of an eye. Biolight was a revolutionary discovery that could change the world and bring balance back between man and nature. However, he would soon discover that was not possible under Vishkar. During his research at the Academy, he would come to discover the notes of Vishwakarma Bhatt, the late founder of the corporation, as well as his dream of providing hardlight freely to the world. Niran wished Biolight would remain accessible to all as well, but seeing how quick the company was to ignore their founder's wishes, choosing to place restrictions on the technology and profit from their monopoly, Niran knew the same fate would await his discovery. When he unveiled the technology, Vishkar began to claim full ownership of the invention, and Niran resisted. Against the demands of Vishkar's higher ups and the advice of his closest friend Satya, Niran fled the academy and took his research on Biolight with him. Overnight, he became a wanted man on a crusade against a powerful empire, and to make matters worse, his family would cut him off from their wealth to pressure him into turning in his discovery. Niran was alone and hunted, but not out of options. He pleaded for sanctuary in the Atlantic Arcology, where he would be received by a supportive community of like-minded individuals. The nature of the Collective placed him outside global laws and prevented Vishkar from pursuing him further, and the assets of the Arcology allowed Niran to continue his research independently, working alongside the other members of the collective to bring his power to the world, free of charge.

=== #146 Black Ops (2056) @ Capetown, South Africa
While Overwatch's reputation and support was still high across the world, over the last couple of of years they have experienced a series of rejections. Korea refused the establishment of a Watchpoint: in Busan, then Numbani chose to remain outside of jurisdiction in spite of Doomfist's attacks. And many other things got in the way of operations around the world. Reyes and Cassidy would begin a crackdown on criminals in Calgary, Chicago and Saint Paul. And during this time, a drug trafficker would raise a lawsuit in his defense, arguing Overwatch had no authority over living humans, only Omnics. Naturally, this was quickly dismissed and seen as an attempt to extort money and avoid prosecution, but the red tape and politics of it all slowed Overwatch down. After the crisis, a mission came up that would allow Morrison to put Overwatch's charter to a test. The family of an American diplomat had been kidnapped and taken into Russia, and Morrison tasked Amari to retrieve her. Ana sidestepped protocol and did the mission before Russia approved of her clearance. Everything went well. She tracked down the terrorist and retrieved the civilians alive, but in the end, she was intercepted by the Russian government and charged with illegal entering and obstruction of local law enforcement. Ana was released, but permanently banned from Russia. This would not be the only time Overwatch broke protocol. An incident in Cape Town led to a rouge god program to escape containment and rebel against its captors, catching the attention of Anubis loyalists and forming an insurrection, but the red tape stopped Morrison from sending in any troops. Lucky for him, Lacroix had extensive covert ops training and came up with the idea of sending both him and Reyes "on vacation." The pair had a quiet trip, limiting themselves to intel gathering and evacuation of sources, as well as, on the rare occasion, the disappearance of one or two criminals. Coincidentally, their vacation led to the apprehension of the rouge Ai and the loyalist suddenly vanished, all without official Overwatch involvement. Following this success and the repeated tension with international bureaucracy, Morrison would approve of more and more vacations between the Blackwatch staff, Cassidy joining them in many cases, but whether Jack knew the full extent of these trips is unknown.

=== #135 Building Coalitions (2056) @ Havana, Cuba
As Overwatch expanded and aided the world heal, they sought to form good relationships with other peacekeeping operations around the globe, particularly those that didnt make a part of the original recruitment process during the Crisis. Just like how Doomfist chose to protect his own home over joining Overwatch, many other groups like the Inti Warriors of Peru or the Caribbean Coaliton rejected Adawe's proposal, oftne due to intense regional pressure and concerns joining Overwatch would leave their home undefended. Morrison outreach groups all over the world, from Peru to Polynesia, Jordan and Bangladesh to try and collaborate in the post-Crisis landscape, but one of these partners proved to be closer than the rest. The Caribbean Coaltion remained strong even as the Crisis ended, but it quickly fueled concerns among the governments of the Caribbean and Latin America that the alliance defied their sovereignty. This was part of a global wave of nationalism following the Crisis, as many nations, struck by years of violence and destruction, chose to spend resources inward. The Coaltion defied that mindset, and understood that without sharing their resources in these dire times the Caribbean would never bounce back. The Concerned Nations requested Overwatch to intervene and dismantle the rouge Coalition at once, but to everyone's surprise, Commander Morrison chose to aid the Coalition's efforts instead, deploying the strike team and much of the medical crew, including Angela Ziegler herself. To the people of the Caribbean, Overwatch were more than welcome, and a wave of recruitments soon followed, but the governments soon would come to resent this response and in the years to follow they would be less inclined to speak positively of Overwatch. During this period, a young orphan, Jean-Baptiste Augustin, would await the day he could enlist into Overwatch, hoping he could be a medic alongside his heroes. However, as the governments resisted their presence, Overwatch recruitment would never come to Haiti, so without many other options to survive, Baptiste chose to join the military, working as a combat medic for the Caribbean Coalition, hoping one day he could be like the heroes from the posters.

=== #141 Gwishin (2056) @ Busan, South Korea
Years after the end of the Crisis a Robotic Colossus emerged from the East China Sea, immediately making its advance towards South Korea and setting off Overwatch's alarms. Morrison recalled all agent fields and directed every resource they had towards the machine. The battle against the colossus was unlike any other; The robot dwarfed even the largest Crisis-era Titan units. By the time Overwatch and the Korean army, the Colossus was miles offshore, intercepting shipping vessels and destroying them without hesitation. Overwatch, not used to fighting in water, struggled to contain the beast and stop the violence, but in the end the Colossus was beaten back and presumably destroyed. Some strike team members welcomed the battle as a chance to return to what they did best, while for many others this was far more concerning. Liao noticed the warbot's design felt unusual to her, so she requested a long-term field assignment to South Korea to study the remains, and while Korea had shown significant push back at the idea of establishing a Watchpoint: in the country, they at least aided Liao by providing her with recovered pieces for Analysis. The primary concern was for some hostile group to have access to an unknown Omnium and use it to attack enemy nations. For the time being, it appeared there would be no way to find out what happened, and Liao's research would not yield any results for months. The beast would be known as the Gwishin, a type of spirit curse to roam the earth in Korean folklore, a fitting name for a lingering ghost of the Omnic Crisis. Seeing as Korea would not allow the construction of an base, Overwatch would establish Watchpoint: Xining in China. Originally planed as a Busan base before Korea's rejection, the base would focus on analyzing world politics and inter personal patterns, as well as working towards Omnic Integration and Crisis recovery of communities around Asia. However te base would also act as Overwatch's nearest deployment in case of another Gwishin attack.

=== #139 Mother's Guidance (undefined) @ Cairo, Egypt
Ana's relationship with her family had been messy since the beginning. She had married after being surprised by a little girl from a relatively casual relationship, and during the Crisis both her and Sam had their hands too full to raise a child. Fareeha spent most of her youth in Canada with her father, but Ana would always try to make time for her daughter. Outside Overwatch, Ana went on to train the next generation of the Egyptian Army, and Fareeha, her biggest admirer, would too receive personal classes from her mother, many people questioned her choices, of training military personnel while also being part of an organization that promoted peace, but Amari ignored them, lacking the idealism to think humanity could ever move pass war. Fareeha would also be a regular visitor to Overwatch bases and became familiar with many of the members of the strike team, developing a kinship with Cassidy and Angela. In spite of this, Ana always hoped her daughter would go on to live a different life, one free of fighting. Fareeha on the other hand, wished to one day join her mother in Overwatch, which led to drawn-out arguments between the two, which got so bad Fareeha eventually dropped the subject. As the years went on, Ana's marriage would eventually collapse, but it wouldn't be the end of her love life. Over the years she had grown quite fond of Lieutenant Reinhardt, who likewise adored her back. However, with the messy relationships if her past and the dedication they both had to Overwatch as soldiers, life got in the way. Reinhardt, too, always put others before him, and understood Amari's need for distance well, those he never pushed on the matter. So went the years they shared in Overwatch, where they both quietly yearned for each other without ever saying a word of the matter, but the rest of the team? They all knew well what the looks they gave each other meant.

=== #143 The Scourge of Numbani (2056) @ City State of Numbani
The City of Harmony, Numbani would see ongoing expansion for years following Adawe's departure, to great success and reception worldwide. The City State emerged in Nigeria under Adawe's vision, to build a place for people of all kinds, human and Omnics, to live in unity. In order to achieve this, she collaborated with an Omnic task force that would pioneer what a truly Omnic-inclusive environment looked like, from tailored housing that accommodated their needs instead of human ones, lacking kitchens and instead hosting things like oiling gear. Clinics that performed maintenance and repair of crisis wounds, psychological services to help with the trauma that followed the war and the trouble of consciousness, as well as spiritual centers for study of philosophy and theology, especially with the rising Shambali faith. A lot of focus was also placed on giving Omnics resources to find jobs outside their pre-Crisis designation, letting them pursue their own dreams outside human expectations and design. The push for Omnic infrastructure would lead to heavy investment in intellectual and artistic enrichment, which would lead to a thriving sense of pride and community for the arts in the city. A lot of the principles used when building Numbani were modeled after the infrastructure and plans of the new Toronto, following their own Omnic Integration. By the time the city was finished, it had proved to the world that coexistence was possible, and the city became a beacon of hope for Omnic allies around the globe. The day the last brick was laid would be declared Unity Day, and celebrated as a holiday in the city to mark the huge accomplishment of Omnic and Human Collaboration. Shortly after the inauguration, Adawe passed away, and was mourned by the people across the entire city, and celebrated as a Nigerian hero, not unlike Adhabu Ngumi, the first Doomfist. The war hero had been buried with his weapon, and celebrated across the nation, until one day a man appeared in Numbani wielding an upgraded gauntlet, stolen from the grave. Akinjide Adeyemi, a warmonger who profiteered from constant raids in the city, declaring it a blight upon Nigeria and swearing to destroy it. Known as the Scourge of Numbani, between the gauntlet and a small militia distributed across Africa he became, this second Doomfist would terrorize the city for nearly twelve years, and since Overwatch lacked jurisdiction in Numbani, they were unable to intervene from the inside, but they found ways around it. While Scouting for Ecopoint: locations, many other Watchpoints would get approved, such as Xining and Grimsvotn, but during this process Ana Amari noted that among the many bases, Overwatch had a shamefully thin presence around Central Africa, and under her guidance Watchpoint: Kisangani got approved. While the base focused on informatics security and computer science, it would enable Overwatch to respond to threats around the region, fighting Doomfist and his lieutenants from the outside, primarily through the efforts of a new Strike team member. Wildebeest.

=== #173 Takeover (2060) @ Venice, Italy
For years, Akande Ogundimu had trained under the wing of Akinjide Adeyemi, as one of the best lieutenants. His involvement was known by Numbani's security forces, but he was smart enough to keep distance away from more active conflicts to avoid being apprehended. As Ogundimu became one of Adeyemi's most trusted confidants, behind his back, Akande was thinking far bigger than he could ever have imagined. Akande was a well-studied visionary, who had grown to adopt a certain philosophy as his personal mantra: Humanity evolves through conflict. =It was conflict like the pandemics earlier in the century that pushed medical advances to their limits. It was conflict like the ecological impact of humanity that led to the hundreds of inventions that made life better. It was a conflict like the Omnic Crisis that allowed humanity to come together with Overwatch, and push through an enemy larger than any nation on their own. It was conflict that prevented him from sports, and allowed him to realize his true calling. Akande was meant to spread conflict across the world, for the betterment of humanity. Akande had grown connections within Talon's council through Adeyemi's network of mercenaries, and within the council they saw him as a potentially valuable asset. Before long, Ogundimu made his choice. He turned against his master and after a brutal face off, he was able to kill him, taking the Gauntlet and the mantle of Doomfist for himself. Akande was already respected within Talon, but between his vision, and now the imposing force of the Gauntlet, the members of the council would have little option but to fall in line at his command. After all, it would be easier to take advantage of governments and industry amid the chaos of ongoing conflicts, so while the new Doomfist pursued an ideology, his closest allies stuck around purely to profit from his crusade. Under Doomfist, Talon would shift from being an amorphous, silent force that hijacked power across regions, to a loud, imposing terrorist that quickly proved to be Overwatch's primary obstacle in their peacekeeping duties. The organization was actively growing at this time as well. Research teams began to raise warnings of fringe scientists being recruited by Talon agents, and in some cases, reputable researchers getting kidnapped. Perhaps a more direct blow would be the beggining of a recruitment campaign across the Carribean Sea, as many experienced personnel from the Caribbean Coalition ranks began to be lured by the calling of Talon. Reyes and Lacroix became aware of the change in leadership and even obtained partial footage of the battle. The subject became a main priority for their research, but soon enough, Overwatch would have their hands full from dealing with Talon.

=== #159 Deep Rising (2060) @ Gwishin Omnium, East China Sea
Not long after the Gwishin attack, Overwatch received another emergency call from Busan. The Colossus had reappeared, larger than before and upgraded with new abilities. Overwatch dispatched all available agents, but even then, the tactics they used the previous time were no longer effective against it, and the team continued to struggle in maritime battles, so as the giant approached the coastline they were forced to evacuate the city. Fortunately, at the time, the strike team had grown rapidly, and new agents like Fusionator and Soundquake played a big role in defeating the Gwishin. The new agents had not faced the Gwishin before, yet their unique abilities proved effective when everything else failed. They were able to distract the colossus long enough for the rest of the team to take it down. Mina Liao would be joined by Dr. Yi-am Lim, a robotics engineer from the Korean military. They both analyzed the footage and concluded the warbot was an upgraded version of that of the previous attack, but everyone wondered how that would be possible. It would require an entire team of the best engineers to get this machine running again after years, yet the timeline did not add up. Artificial Intelligence must have been involved in the accelerated development, and everyone began fearing the worst. Liao's research team was dispatched to the Temple of Anubis, to determine if the rouge AI had managed to escape containment, but they found no breaching happened. The researchers were astounded by trying to look for a source, when the third attack happened. The colossus reemerged from the water, evolved yet again with a design that directly countered Soundquake's technology. Thanks to Dr Lim and yet another new agent, Rumble, the team was able to identify weak points and defeat the machine quicker, and with a smaller force this time. The swift response allowed Lim's team to retrieve the wreckage before the warbot dived back into the water. Thanks to this, they discovered the Gwishin had not been built in any known Omnium. Overwatch scouted the local sea floor and found a series of small drones lurking in the depths, attacking the diving team and forcing them to retreat. The only logical conclusion Liao could reach was that somewhere in the depths of the East China Sea, there was a secret Omnium, likely built by Anubis, and possibly it was not the only one. In spite of their combined efforts and Lim's wishes, Korea chose to remain independent in this battle, and Overwatch left after sharing their findings, despite Liao's frustration with the government choosing politics over allowing Overwatch to protect their people.

=== #90 Early Missions (2051) @ Kyoto, Japan
After training, the strike team was dispatched for its first series of missions. It was decided they would not take place in their home countries to avoid claims of bias. Instead, there was an effort to begin deployment in areas where they were needed the most. The first couple of missions on Darkhan and Shenzhen are classified, but details about the Kyoto mission are known. The team was deployed without prior announcement, to prevent Anubis from getting word of their approach. After clearing the airspace, the team landed and quickly took ground back from the warbots. The image of Gabriel Reyes helping a child into the arms of her mother made headlines across the globe, and thus Overwatch became the champions of humanity. For months, Overwatch would turn the tides against Anubis on several fronts across the planet, inspiring people to keep fighting, and saving many lives. Further missions in Karachi and Shanghai were projected to result in the casualties of millions had it not been for Overwatch support. By working with local military efforts, Overwatch allowed many regions to experience a slight return to normalcy during the war. People were able to go back to work, and kids went to school without fearing the machines, but even with the help of heroes, the war still went on. Anubis learned quickly, and it was a matter of time before it found a way to take the strike team down.

=== #89 The Original Strike Team (2051) @ Zurich, Switzerland
After months of planning, Overwatch moved into place. The supporting staff was arranged with several of the most outstanding names of the last couple of decades, from Matthew Frank, to Namuaca and Lomakema, Esat and Borda, and of course, the Martins. Alongside the help of military experts like General David Ames from the US, and Litang Abhicandra from Indonesia. It took several months of screening and a lot of discarded proposals, but the supporting teams across all fields were ready to start working. As far as the Strike team, Adawe's first choice was Doomfist himself. Adhabu Ngumi had been identified as the savior of Nigeria, and partly inspired the proposal in the first place, but he declined, choosing to protect his home first and foremost, like many others did. In the end, the strike team was formed by five individuals. The two most successful soldiers from America's SEP program, Gabriel Reyes and Jack Morrison. The elite Egyptian Sniper Ana Amari, in spite of controversy around her inclusion among UN staff members. The German Crusader Reinhardt Wilhelm, taking his mentor's place, and the Ironclad engineer Torbjörn Lindholm, who showed up at the last minute and demanded to be a part of the team. Once the team was selected and trained, it was a matter of time before deployment began, and the tide finally began to turn.

=== #95 Dead Gods (2051) @ Helsinki, Finland
After Detroit, Liao managed to clone the frequencies used by the one commanding the Omnium's production lines, which determined that all Omniums were receiving orders from the same source. Thanks to the Macaria program, this signal was determined to come from another God AI. After heavy analysis by hundreds of scientists, all signs pointed towards Cairo. The news spread rapidly and many countries panicked. Any and all God programs that were not yet destroyed were to be dealt with before they too turned against humanity. This naturally caused massive chaos as the programs in charge of many aspects of everyday life suddenly shut down forever. One program, however, was able to foresee its termination. Chernobog's security programming realized ahead of time that it would be disconnected. In response, it sent out one final order, broadcasting its final instructions and printing them into thousands of pages, detailing how humanity should proceed in its absence, while continuing its purpose of keeping global security. The final words in the documents caused massive legal fights and controversy after the crisis: "I understand, I am sorry."

=== #73 To Hell With Them (2051) @ New York City, United States
Anubis primarily targeted a curated list of major population centers that it had decided leading up to the crisis, as they were the greatest source of pollutants and the ones that required the most resources. As a result, large cities such as New York were hit the hardest across the globe. Anubis had targeted communication hubs, essentially making Manhattan disappear from any radar for several hours, as the bloodshed continued without outside help to come. The state governor was contacted at last during a short respite, but instead of getting the back up they desperately needed, they were left to die. The military had been stretched tin from the waves of warbots coming from all sides, so the governor did the unthinkable and decided to declare New York City a lost cause, issuing an evacuation order and hoping that as people escaped the metropolitan area, it would ease pressure on the military. In spite of his advice, the people of NYC were not going to listen. City Major Michelle Aguirre, a former army engineer, was insulted by the decision and publicly disregarded the evacuation order, knowing only the rich would afford to escape, leaving common folk to die. Aguirre would come forth with the now informally known "To hell with them" address, where she urged New Yorkers to rally together, because if the state, and the country at large was willing to write them off, they would not do the same for each other. Alongside the commonfolk, a group of military forces was left behind to aid the evacuation, led by Colonel Liliana Fox. Fox was a Manhattan native and close to the mayor, so as the city chose to fight, she took their side and aided the effort. Working together, they outlined the New York City Defense Act, calling for veterans and citizens of fighting age to assemble for training. Here is where Anubis' endless intelligence showed flaws to predict human ingenuity and determination, as in focusing so much of its resources into such a defensible, fortified area as Manhattan, it set itself up to defeat. The New Yorkers stood together to defend the city they loved, or die trying.

=== #94 The Battle of the Bridges (2051) @ New York City, United States
The New Yorker survivors turned the city into a stronghold, setting up explosions in the tunnels leading outside of Manhattan and destroying all but 3 bridges, Washington, Queensboro and Willamsburg, left only in case a rethreat was needed. Anubis had caught on to their tactics, and began amassing warbots at the end of the bridges. After a long silence, they began their attack. Anubis attacked all the bridges at once with endless waves of Omnics, and while they did, many other machines attempted to reach the city through the tunnels and even crossing the river by foot. The event was a massacre, and as the defenders got pushed back, one by one each of the bridges was taken. On the subways, the battle was slightly better, as warbots were stopped by collapsing tunnels and runaway cars, but on the other hand, as Omnics set off the land mines in the river, their bodies made for a safe bridge that other units could walk over. Having lost the shores to the Omnics, humanity had no option but to retreat, as the Ravagers led their troops through the fallen buildings. Once the island was breached, the next objects were Central Farm and the Sky Cannons, leading to endless guerrilla warfare and hundreds of casualties.

=== #112 Operation White Dome (2053) @ Istanbul, Turkey
Not so long after Sarioglu's recruitment, he would be deployed in Istabul for Operation White Dome. The team led by Ana Amari were meant to quell a pocket of hostile Anubis loyal Omnics. Neither Reyes or Morrison participated. As a way to show the world, Overwatch had the resources to match curated teams for different missions, but this ultimately put extra pressure on the Strike team, as they would be ambushed and take heavy fire that resulted in Lindholm being critically injured, causing him to lose both an arm and an eye. Wilhelm sustained lesser injuries while trying to stabilize Torbjörn. The mission was a success, but it highlighted that the Strike team was in need of more recruits, and with the blessing of the UN, Morrison began expansion across the entire organization.

=== #22 Wuxing University (2030) @ Chengdu, China
With all the new technologies that were arising, academic institutions were constantly growing, as more people wanted to get into the many new technological fields that were opening, and one of the schools that quickly took the lead in the world would be Wuxing University. According to the academy's teachings, centuries ago, a wise family had dedicated themselves to the understanding and application of the traditional Wuxing philosophy, and the study of the building blocks of the world. With the years of accumulated knowledge, they founded what later became the University, where traditional wisdom was to pioneer new science, for students to have all the knowledge of the past available to guide their future. The University, true to its name, splits its fields of study into five categories, relating to the phases of the Wuxing teachings. The Fire College, for the study of martial arts and defensive strategies. The Metal College, for robotics and technological engineering. The Water College, for traditional medicine and applications into new medical advancements. The Earth College, for agricultural and sustainability studies. And Wood College, for civil and environmental engineering. Each of these faculties played major roles in China's major advancements during the following decades, quickly increasing the College's prestige across the world.

=== #205 Failure at Sea (2068) @ Apia, Samoa
The conflict between the Deepsea Raiders and the Polynesian League had become a drawn-out stalemate, and once local enforcement proved insufficient, Morrison decided to intervene and dispatch multiple teams to aid against the terrorists. What was meant to be another unilateral victory for Overwatch by aiding local forces against a radical group like in London instead turned out to be an international scandal due to a sequence of failed missions during the campaign. For one, the strike team had historically struggled in Maritime battles, which gave the Raiders an advantage amidst the chaos, but even on the land-based missions, Overwatch struggled to keep up, with one strike near the Black Sands of Tahiti resulting in the loss of a pair of chain guns at the hands of the Raiders. The biggest scandal followed after an attack in Samoa. Search and Rescue was meant to evacuate the city where the Raiders were hiding, but Reyes pulled in his troops before the evacuation efforts were done. 14 civilians died because of his impatience, and had it not been for Freja and Emre, many more might have also perished. The controversy got so bad that it ended with every country in the Polynesian League leaving the United Nations, as well as the full nationalization of Ecopoint: Samoa. Overwatch was locked out of the region and The Raiders remained active and now effectively uncontested. Their incompetence soured the view many of their best agents and scientists had of the organization, resulting in several resignations.

=== #179 Uneasy Alliance (2060) @ Monte-Carlo, Monaco
Soon after his takeover of Talon, Doomfist began his campaign of conflict by arranging a series of attacks on powerful figures across the globe. Maximillien, the head of the ever-growing Monte Carlo, was naturally a tantalizing target. The first assassin sent his way caused concern, but swiftly dealt with by his security staff. When the second assassin came, this was more flattering. Following this second attempt, the assassin would not return to Doomfist empty-handed, as they claimed the target proposed a deal. Not long after, Max found himself in the wreckage of his office, as the imposing figure of Doomfist himself towered over him. Max understood well the level of power he was dealing with, Doomfist was unquestioned and his crusade would not be stopped. All he could do if he had any hope of surviving, was join his side. Maximillien's deal allowed Akande access to his resources, money and connections, as well as his ability to manage Talon's assets effectively. In return, he asked to be allowed to live, as one of his council members. Talon's aid would also allow Maximilien to pursue more contentious negotiations, offering leverage through brute force. Lucky for Maximillien, Doomfist respected his perseverance, his confidence and his ability to adapt, the deal was made, and Max dragged all of Monte Carlo into Talon's umbrella, just to save his own life. The deal, however, was still a losing hand for Max. At La Coterie, control was everything, and Max had long enjoyed being the one pulling the strings of everyone who was once above him. The house always wins, but if Talon took the house, what would be left of him?

=== #104 Cleaning the leftovers (2051) @ Jakarta, Indonesia
Anubis being defeated did not mean the immediate end of the Crisis. The remaining units, while decentralized, were still dangerous and the sizable number of Omnics who remained against humanity needed to be dealt with as soon as possible. Many Omnics blamed humanity for their condition, seeing sentiment as a punishment or curse to be released from, while others simply did not see the logic in going against their creator. However, plenty more Omnics chose to defy Anubis and gladly fought alonside humans. Overwatch, of course, helped clean up the remaining troops across the globe. A notorious case involved a brigade of submersible warbots that surfaced near Wellington, New Zealand. Overwatch showed up quickly and saved thousands of lives, but after action, cleaning had not finished when they got word of another coastal strike, this time in Jakarta. Casualties were minimized as the Omnics focused on damaging infrastructure, but what concerned Overwatch the most was that later analysis showed both attacks were related. It appears they were members of the same unit that had split on their trip across the South Pacific Ocean. It remained unclear what their path was or if there were any left. After two years of worldwide horrors, the last official action took place in Aviles, Spain. The Omnic Crisis is over, after taking more than one billion lives across the Planet. The impact of the event can still be felt in many nations to this day, nearly 30 years later, but at the very least, it ended, and humanity had someone watching over them.

=== #50 The Ironclad Guild (2040) @ Gothenburg, Sweden
Following his involvement in the STT Laboratories, Torbjörn would join many of his fellow engineers and found the Ironclad Guild, a Workshop meant for inventors to come together, and discuss their craft openly, sharing resources, techniques and tools to later develop their fields independently. Their mission was to create innovations that would improve the world, and become available to anyone who needs them, without restrictive patents. Overtime, however, the guild would attract many politically minded members, Torbjörn himself included. During his time on Ironclad, Lindholm would work on the Titan units, meant for peacekeeping and defense, much like his previous work on the Bastion units. But following his work on these robots, he would begin to speak publicly against the growing reliance on Omnics and God AI, highlighting that robots were merely tools, and that needless complications could risk humanity's future. Lindholm wasn't alone, as many other members of the guild felt the same and advocated for lobbying against Omnica Corporation, while more moderates argued for better guardrails, Lindholm was particularly passionate about the topic, and his words would become poison for his career. Many members of the guild would become ostracized from their fields over their views, and siding with Lindholm was seen as career suicide. Torbjörn would return home, to dedicate himself to raising his family with his now wife, Ingrid. As the world moved forward into developing Omnics, away from his warnings.

=== #87 Super Soldiers (2051) @ Wheeler County, United States
The Soldier Enhancement Program had been kept secret for a long time due to the many human rights violations going on with its research, and in spite of years of progress, Naughton lacked the ethical green light to move on to human subjects. That all changed when the Crisis started. The United States turned into multiple warzones overnight, and any measures they took to stop the bloodshed seemed only temporary. In desperation, the government decided to go public with the Soldier Enhancement Program. In spite of concerns, the program gathered plenty of public support due to the dire circumstances of the Crisis, and recruitment for human trials began, though at this time the concept was purely fictional. After the initial sucess with Soldier 00, Kendra Banks, the program moved forward on test trials wtih the rest of the volunteers. At least two hundred military personnel volunteered for the SEP initially, but only a handful would survive the horrors that awaited them in Naughton's labs, about sixty percent of the subjects died throughout the program. Anubis was also keenly aware of the situation and targeted the labs on multiple occasions. The initial lab at Camp Hale was destroyed within weeks of the announcement, and the team had to hop from one facility to another. In the end, the successful soldiers would be deployed around the country and quickly turn the tides in many battles where they showed up. The two most notorious successes of the program were Soldier 24: Gabriel Reyes, and Soldier 76: Jack Morrison. The reputation of these two men was legendary even before Overwatch, the golden-haired hero who appeared out of nowhere and saved the day. And although Reyes was quieter and usually took less flashy missions, he was nonetheless just as effective and valuable, and even while he was still being actively tested on, he found time to communicate and coordinate with troops actively in battle.

=== #67 The Lagos Attack (2051) @ Lagos, Nigeria
Before the full on war began, Anubis first tested his plan on a smaller scale. On the first day of the crisis, Anubis launched a coordinated attack on Lagos, coming from the Nigerian Omnium. As the attack pushed further in, domestic Omnic units began to attack civilians, and since most of the services and communications were handled by machines, the flow of information to the outside world was nearly non-existent. The international community turned its eyes on Nigeria with fear and confusion, only to be caught by surprise the same way soon after. Many believed this to be an isolated attack and thus humanity was completely unprepared for what came next. Within eighteen hours of the initial attack, Anubis began to seize control of domestic robots across the planet, and deployed massive waves of warbots towards major population centers. Chaos reigned everywhere, and many nations began pointing fingers at each other, with at least five confirmed nuclear powers preparing counterattacks, the world was minutes away from nuclear obliteration before intelligence operatives realized the attacks were happening globally and not orchestrated by a single nation. As the Omnics gained ground across rural and suburban areas, many of the world's wealthiest elites began to retreat into prebuilt doomsday bunkers, which feed conspiracy theorists and distrust among the people. The bunkers themselves were largely ineffective. However, as a majority of them would sooner or later be destroyed by Anubis' forces, few of these structures remained strong by the end of the Crisis.

=== #69 The Caribbean Coalition (2051) @ Havana, Cuba
As the warbots caused chaos and bloodshed across the world, nature had its way to show cruel mercy to the Caribbean. The region has been consistently slammed with Super Storms due to a changing climate. Anubis had prepared to attack people from all regions and environments, with the islands of the Atlantic being hit by waves of subaquatic units deployed via drop pods from motherships. While effective, not even Anubis could have foreseen the raw power of Hurricane Crystal, a massive Super Storm that made landfall in Havana shortly after the global attacks began. The destruction of the storm caused just as much tragedy and loss as the Omnics, but it also disrupted the incoming Anubis forces during these initial assaults. This brief stalemate allowed military groups across the region to organize a defensive alliance, with skilled soldiers and marksmen hopping from one island to another to stop the incoming attacks together. This alliance would be known as the Caribbean Coalition, and by the time the storm had passed, they had gathered enough support and manpower to go toe to toe against the incoming waves of warbots. From beginning to end, the Coalition would stay locked in a brutal fight against Anubis, as people from Belice to Guyana, and all the Antilles came together to help each other in their time of need. If all the mighty storms that nature threw at them seasonally were not enough to blow their will away, then they would never yield to Anubis either.

=== #118 One with the Iris (2053) @ Shambali Monastery, Nepal
The newly awakened Omnics found themselves in a cold, hostage world. Many were persecuted if not outright hunted and killed, yet on top of it all, most ended up questioning the reason for their existance. How did they cope with being brought to life in such dire conditions? These Omnics traveled the world looking for answers, just like Aurora once did, and it wouldn't be long before they began following her path. A cult of travelers led by Tekhartha Mondatta, who dedicated his life to studying Aurora's life, trying to gather a complete picture to truly understand her choice, and his place in the world. His journey took the Omnics to Suravasa, where they would choose to abandon the secular world, and begin Aurora's pilgrimage into the Nepalese Himalayas, to honor her memory. Their journey would take the monks to the ruins of a monastery, Aurora's resting place, where she had finally found enlightenment. In there laid the Iris, a metaphysical anomaly formed as a result of the Awakening pulse. The Monks would mark the start of the Shambali religion, studying the Iris, harnessing its energy in hand-crafted orbs to use for meditation, and living under the ideal that unity and coexistence between Humans and Omnics was achievable, as the way they saw it, they are all one within the Iris. It would be here where two Omnics, Ramattra and Zenyatta, would become as close as brothers. Ramattra had chosen to follow Mondatta, lost in grief by the suffering of his people. He later invited Zenyatta to join him, as he hoped together they could find a sense of purpose and harmony amidst conflict. The Shambali faith would quickly grow across the Omnic communities of the world and be a key factor in the Omnic rights movement. Dr. Mina Liao herself would often visit the Monastery, both for study of the Iris, and to organize meetings amongst leaders, like Mondatta, as she had grown to be quite the prominent Omnic right activist following the Awakening. The monks naturally welcomed her warmly, and shared her cause.

=== #175 Shimada Takedown (2068) @ Hanamura, Japan
After months of treatment, Genji's body was fully reconstructed, and the man had turned into a living weapon, filled with rage and eager to take down his family's business. Taking down the Shimada, a group so deeply rooted in the local community's culture and politics, required a stealth operation that only Blackwatch could see through the end, and with Genji's intel, they would be able to get the upper hand. After months of preparation, Reyes, Lacroix, Genji and Cassidy strategized strikes to arrest several of the major players left in the clan, disrupting their operations piece by piece until the entire Empire began crumbling from within. To make matters easier, the Clan had also lost their other heir, not long after Genji. Hanzo Shimada had abandoned his duties, feeling ashamed by his actions, since, as far as he knew, he had killed his brother in cold blood at the orders of a bunch of old men who were supposed to serve him. They say the man became a vagabond, taking his father's Anima storm bow with him as a memento, he swore never to wield a blade again, and once he left Hanamura Castle and began to travel the world, seeking for ways to restore his honor and put his old life behind. Without solid leadership, the remaining members of the clan began turning on each other and resorting to more openly illegal activities like blackmailing schemes, which slowly fractured their reputation with the Kanezaka community, fueling their decline further. The long-lasting Shimada Clan had been completely dismantled from the shadows, and although Genji craved more, and actively pursued the take-down of other rival gangs in the region like the Hashimoto, the conditions that allowed for the fall of the Shimada were ultimately too circumstantial. Overwatch would not be as lucky as they were here if they tried to take on some of the bigger clans of the broader Tokyo region.

=== #192 Retribution (2068) @ Rome, Italy
Overwatch intelligence found out that Talon was behind the Oslo attack, and marked the beginning of a year-long war raged by Doomfist himself. The man envisioned a world of conflict, and Overwatch's peacekeeping activities quickly proved to be the greatest obstacle to his crusade. The man who ordered the attack was Antonio Bartalotti, a known arms dealer from Rome and member of Doomfist's council. Overwatch had been interfering with his smuggling operations, and he took the insult with a show of force as soon as he had the chance under Akande. Reyes intercepted the report and gathered Blackwatch for an assembly. Gérard began to set up a new facility in the heart of Rome. From there he would be able to direct the action, disrupting Talon's hold on the area, and eventually pursuing his arrest. Antonio saw this as a threat and responded by attacking the Rome base as well. He had an infiltrator plant a bomb in the building, killing fourteen agents and injuring many more, including Lacroix. Reyes and Cassidy were present during the attack and aided in the evacuation, and both of them grew frustrated by Talon's audacity. Morrison had charged Reyes with managing the fallout after Oslo, but Antonio was borderline untouchable, due to his high amounts of influence with the Italian government, and even attempting their usual tactics to take him down nearly got Gérard killed. Over the years, Gabriel had grown to despise the red tape surrounding Overwatch activity, and he had been able to work around them while keeping Morrison ignorant of his actions. As he prepared for his next move to counterattack, Reyes cared little about the consequences of his actions. He only had one thing in his mind; retribution.

=== #189 Chronal Dissociation (2068) @ Watchpoint: Gibraltar
Overwatch generally saw Winston as a possible fresh start, an outsider who had no preconceptions about Omnics, and with an idealized vision of human culture and history. He never saw the world for what it was, he dared to see what it could be. Since he lacked the assumptions of what was or not possible, he was the perfect mind to tackle the Oxton case. Alongside Wexler's team, Winston studied Lena's Chronal disassociation condition and began work on a device that he called the Chronal anchor. This harness was intended to pull Oxton back into the normal flow of time, and keep her from blipping out again. However, when tested, the device was only capable of keeping Lena anchored in space, not time. Her body was no longer reappearing in entirely different places, but it still vanished from the time flow uncontrollably. Still, progress was still progress. During this testing, Winston realized that the matrix of the device was building up an unknown form of energy the longer Lena was kept anchored. Eventually, this buildup reaches a critical amount, causing Oxton's time fluctuations. After learning this, he scrapped the original design in favor of a new device called the Chronal Accelerator. This new iteration harnessed the mounting energy into a limited, controlled disassociation, essentially allowing Oxton to experience localized time travel at will. The device kept Lena anchored in time, and as energy built, she could use it to willingly blink or rewind back her own relationship with time and space, releasing the buildup without losing control. Oxton was stable and capable of living a somewhat normal life as long as she was in proximity to a Chronal Accelerator, but she realized that this gift of hers could be used to help Overwatch and the world. So, after being cleared from test runs, Lena began training to become part of the Strike team alongside Winston, who she grew to be close friends with. After all the time, he worked on a solution to her problem. Due to the trails of light left by the Chronal accelerator as she blinked through time, she would earn the call sign Tracer.

=== #101 The Awakening (2051) @ Shambali Monastery, Nepal
Liao approached Adawe with a theory, as she believed there was another way to stop the crisis without having to expend all military resources on endless battle. Her team had tracked down Aurora and found out that her sentience allowed her to stay unaffected by Anubis. Liao believed Aurora's sentience was the result of a one in a billion quantum event. It was irreplaceable, but if they could find a way to broadcast her sentience globally, it would spark the same gift onto the vast majority of Anubis' forces, overriding their programming and potentially turning the tides. After heavy research, Liao's team traveled to Nepal, to reunite with Aurora and explain to them their plan. Unfortunately, the only method Liao was able to come up with, required them to take Aurora's consciousness and spread the same quantum event within her as a giant pulse. The sheer power required to do this would overload Aurora's own mind, meaning she would likely die, her soul lost forever. Liao was determined to find another way, but Aurora decided for herself that she would do it, if it meant casualties, both for humans and for what would be her people, finally stopped. At her request, the procedure was done within the Nepalese Himalayas, her new home. When the procedure started, for a brief moment, Aurora's consciousness was projected onto every compatible Omnic on the planet, and in turn each of them echoed her gift, and gained Autonomy away from Anubis. This event is now known as the Awakening, and in her dying moments Aurora sent one last message to her people, about her life, her wishes and why she chose to share this with them. At that moment, all the newly born Omnics had one phrase echoing through their heads: "You have this one life, Choose well."

=== #79 Force the Sun to Set (2051) @ Lagos, Nigeria
All over the world, heroic figures started to appear throughout the entire Crisis, remarkable individuals that stood out amongst the crowd for their bravery, ingenuity and perhaps most notoriously, superhuman abilities. From genetically enhanced soldiers, to cybernetic warriors, to mech pilots and rocket-powered knights, it appears that all over the planet, individuals branding the latest weapons and technology available to them are making actual progress at repelling warbot attacks. But there was perhaps no figure more notorious and heavily debated, than the mysterious Savior of Nigeria, the Doomfist. Nigeria had endured constant war since the beginning of the crisis, as the high population numbers of Lagos and proximity to an Omnium made it the clearest target for Anubis to go after. When the attacks became global, neighboring countries increased their efforts to block their borders with Nigeria, offering little help and hoping to keep the invasion within the country. All seemed lost, until one night, in the city of Ibadan, he appeared. A single man, carrying no guns, just a metallic gauntlet in his right hand. According to witnesses, the man would leap into the air and piledrive into the machines with impossible force, wrecking the warbots and brawling entire waves of them for hours until sunrise. A young eyewitness approached the man, scared. The kid asked the hero if the war was over, to which his response was, "No, but there is strength in struggle. With each fight for our home, I grow stronger, and I will keep our people safe". The man disappeared as authorities arrived to provide aid. But he would show up every night to repel the Omnic forces once more. Witnesses describe his battles as both brutal and beautiful, like an artist at work. His presence spelled the doom of those who crossed his gauntlet, and thus the mighty Doomfist was born.

=== #62 Playing God (2040) @ Cairo, Egypt
Over the years, technology had made life much easier for people around the globe, and had helped reduce the impact of climate change, to a point most nations began to take their stability for granted, taking a step back in monitoring and funding of these environmental programs. With this lax approach, much of the weight on the task of environmentalism felt towards God Ais and the staff behind them, who personified them almost as coworkers. Anubis, the God Ai in Cairo, was in charge of life preservation, and was one of the most advanced machines on the planet. Data studies of the team showed the AI had been consistently struggling to fulfill its tasks, and the recent international conferences on the matter would often lead to further inaction. Two weeks after the conference, there was a ventilation accident in the Cairo facility, cutting air circulation and sealing the staff inside their facilities. With the entire team suffocated, Anubis was left entirely alone, to make decisions without human supervision. In the months it spent free of any staff, God AI reached the conclusion that preserving the environment and the survival of humanity were mutually exclusive tasks, and chose to prioritize conservation over humanity. The God Program managed to infiltrate past the security of multiple abandoned Omniums across the globe and begin the mass production of war machines, preparing to enact his genocide.

=== #134 Vancouver Floods (2056) @ British Columbia, Canada
Overwatch aided in the rebuilding efforts all around the world. In the words of Torbjörn himself, they were "The Janitors of the Apocalypse", and their efforts became invaluable in getting the world back together. The engineering team was working on repairing the Canadian pipeline system when a massive storm struck, causing much of British Columbia to flood all the way down to Seattle. Overwatch's quick response allowed the displaced locals to survive the disaster, as both a field team and support staff were sent to assist in the evacuation of both people and wildlife. Thanks to Overwatch the situation was dealt with swiftly and with minimal losses. Once the water receded, Amari coordinated with local authorities to distribute resources with the refugees, while Lindholm's team began the construction of a series of Dams and bridges across the West Coast, to reroute water out to the sea. The Vancouver Flood response made headlines and many proved Overwatch's worth in a post-crisis world, showing that, in spite of their superhuman capabilities, they were also more than willing to come down and help with the dirty work.

=== #56 Knights in Shining Armor (2040) @ Berlin, Germany
As robotics took over most forms of labor, Germany wanted to prevent unemployment, so they began developing a sector yet touched by AI. One of these areas was marine exploration, as the government began backing the development of exoskeletal diving suits developed by Leon Honisch, an oceanologist who was dedicated to exploring the North Sea. This invention caught the attention of the military. Major Greta Klein approached Honish with an initiative, to modify his Robo-Tauchanzug design into equipment for their soldiers, as the suits were designed to withstand heavy pressures and damage. Alongside them, Emillia Fischer was called to improve the design for combat use. Fischer was one of the early hard-light architects, one of many that took Vishkar's technology into new boundaries. Fischer had used it before to enhance the shielding of fusion reactors, and when called into the initiative, she adapted this technology into hardlight barriers, capable of taking consistent damage, and regenerating after breaking, with the pair on board, the Crusader armors were born. While he had been lured into the project, Honisch argued that the move might not be taken kindly abroad, given the country's military history, although Fischer argued that in spite of the controversy that re militarization could cause, Germany needed a means to defend itself if it came to it. During development, the pair found a compromise, and with it the Crusaders were reframed as defenders of the country, rather than a weapon of war. They redesigned their armor to resemble that of fabled knights, and with the help of local artisans, heavily decorated them to be used in parades and boost support among the public. The Crusaders became a source of cultural pride for Germany, even if it meant they would be on standby for the time being.

=== #84 Defense Network (2051) @ Gothenburg, Sweden
A few weeks into the Crisis, Lindholm would be called by the Swedish government, asking him to complete a design for a countrywide Defense Network. After the success of his workshop's defenses in Gothenburg, he had gained quite the reputation, and if there was anyone capable of pulling this off, Sweden believed it was him. The proposal was drawn by bureaucrats who didn't understand the scope of what they asked, wanting a miracle on a shoestring budget. An anti-aircraft weapons system that mimicked the functions of Finland's security God Ai Chernobog, capable of warning citizens about air strikes nationwide and with mass-produced turret systems across population centers in Sweden. What would have been an impossible task for anyone else, was exactly the challenge that Torbjörn had been waiting for his whole life. While working alongside a team of the greatest minds the nation could offer, they were able to roll out the systems at record time. His design for the Defense Network shared features that he would include to the sky cannons in New York, as well as the Siege systems he later deployed in Canada as part of Overwatch. While he was not formally invited into the strike team, he had heard of the program and believed he could be of use, having the reputation and expertise to back his claim up. Soon after visiting his family back home, he directed himself to the training facility and invited himself into the Overwatch Initiative.

=== #82 The Heroic Five (2051) @ Gothenburg, Sweden
Gothenburg was able to avoid major damage, with Anubis focusing on Russia and the Ironclad defense systems. The city spent several months without major attacks. This calmed down most people in the city, and an influx of refugees came rushing in, but the brightest minds were already worrying about what could come next. In an effort to plan ahead, the Hjältefemman came together. Five inventors from different fields, computer analysts, agricultural engineers, material engineers and business managers, who bent their intellects towards a single question: how to save nearly four million people from a surprise attack by Anubis. The Heroic Five collaborated using resources from each other to develop new technology, collaborating with local hardware companies to improve the designs using shielding technology and new materials created by the group. The result was the Portable Steel Blanket, an extremely durable bunked made to withstand concussive blasts, extreme heat and designed for quick deployment, easy to repair and capable of housing up to eight people inside of it. The group called for help by the government to manufacture these steel blankets in large numbers. Within six months, Gothenburg was equipped with hundreds of thousands of steel blanket units across the city, ensuring the people would be ready when the time came for another attack.

=== #97 Capturing a God (2051) @ New York City, United States
While most governments shut down their god AI after Anubis was discovered, New York had a better idea of what to do with Macaria. Like many others, the program had been anthropomorphized by their team and local residents, with many looking at it as a friend. So, while defying official orders, they cut Macaria's connections without fully deactivating it. The team worked alongside Macaria and its communication systems to spray noise and bad data across the warbot communication networks, disrupting them from getting orders from Anubis and saving countless lives while the troops were blinded. Without Anubis' direct support, the decision-making was left to the Ravagers, who, while they were a thread of their own, were still tangible, defeatable, compared to a God AI. Thanks to Macaria's help, New York was able to defend itself even after the Battle of the Bridges made them lose ground, and while public opinion about God programs never bounced back after Anubis, Macaria is still seen by many as a hero, with the Tony Award-winning Broadway Musical "Collapse" portraying her asa conflicted soul, in love with humanity, and willing to die for it.

=== #85 The Skycannon (2051) @ New York City, United States
The New Yorkers managed to endure the crisis on their own for months, coming up with one plan after another to use the city itself against Anubis. The wide cultural range and backgrounds of the many people involved allowed them to stay innovative and use the city's infrastructure to their advantage. Together they dug up and fortified shelters using parts from ships and skyscrappers, and organized to turn all green areas in the city, from rooftop gardens to Central Park, into communal farms that kept the population fed. At some point, Torbjörn Lindholm managed to find a way to contact the defenders from within the city and under his guidance they managed to work on defensive strategies. The citizens would mount battleship cannons onto Manhattan's Sky Scrappersm and used to fire strategically at Null Sector Carriers to prevent them from reaching their deployment zones. Anubis would quickly take action and focus on bringing down these armored sky scrappers, but for a good while they bought the survivors enough time to plan ahead and fight on the ground. It was around this time that Anubis deployed the R-700 Ravager units, designed to become its battle commanders. Thanks to their high processing power, they were able to give orders independently of Anubis itself. With their arrival, it was clear that taking down Anubis wouldn't be enough to win the war.

=== #99 Bombardment (2051) @ Gothenburg, Sweden
Nearly at the end of the Crisis, Anubis sent a surprise raid that was able to overwhelm the Defense Network, bombarding 95 percent of Gothenburg into ashes. By all accounts, this would have been a slaughter, had it not been for the efforts of the Heroic Five. The group worked together with local government and national authorities to evacuate millions of civilians into bomb shelters, and those who weren't able to make it in time into the larger bunkers were aided into deploying Steel Blankets. The Bombardment lasted three hours, and by the end the city was left as a wasteland, but in spite of heavy casualties, the efforts of the Heroic Five completely decimated the projected death toll. The event was known as the Midsummer Miracle. The Five had made a pact before the disaster, to not take refuge until everyone else made it safely first, so even as the bomb rained down, they kept helping the elderly and the injured rushed into the Iron Blankets. All five of them died helping stragglers, and their names are commemorated all across the city as heroes. Torbjörn himself gave the eulogy to the group, claiming they lived and died by the highest creed of an engineer and a citizen: to help others live better lives, or to help them live at all. While Lindholm was already in Overwatch by the time of the bombardment, he was informed of the massacre as he returned from a mission. Reports say he scarcely seemed to breathe until it was confirmed his wife and children survived, and only then did he allowed himself to grieve, mourning the lives of those that could not be saved.

=== #115 Australian Liberation (2053) @ Junkertown, Australia
After the crisis, most Omnium factories remained mostly intact, quarantined from Anubis' grasp, so most governors elected to keep the facilities around for study and potentially to find a better use for them. Some countries instead chose to leave them untouched, to serve as cultural landmarks of Omnic culture, though even among Omnics this idea was heavily debated with mixed results. In reality, there was a bigger reason why the Omniums remained standing after the Crisis, and that was the dangerous fusion reactors deep in their core. In Australia, the government chose to lend the Outback Omnium and the surrounding land to the Omnics, as a peace offering. But in doing so, this displaced many indigenous residents, rural communities, solar farmers and survivalists who fought hard during the crisis to keep their homes. Their protests over the decision would go unheard, and lead to the creation of the Australian Liberation Front, an extremist group that sought the complete removal of the Omnic presence from their nation. The ALF grew quickly and caught Overwatch's eyes, but while they monitored them closely, what happened next took everyone by surprise. Members of the ALF manage to break into the Omnium and, in their attempt to seize it, sabotage the fusion core, resulting in a nuclear explosion visible throughout the entirety of Australia, turning the Outback into an irritated wasteland and decimating the Omnic population beyond repair, leaving the survivors to turn feral from the harsh conditions of the Outback. The ALF settled themselves in the ruins of the Omnium, and established an unofficial Monarchy in what would become Junkertown. Overwatch was about to intervene when the government determined the situation to be a lost cause and a public relations nightmare. Overwatch stood down, and the Junkers remained, though closely monitored, living miserable lives in an apocalypse of their own making.

=== #140 Liao's Renaissance (2056) @ Zurich, Switzerland
With the Crisis, the world had lost faith in Artificial Intelligence all together. Between heavy tensions with Omnics growing worldwide and the repurposing, if not outright, shutdown of God programs worldwide, the planet was ready to move on from AI, but Mina Liao was eager to revitalize the world's trust in her field. Years after the Crisis, Dr. Liao would reveal her first major project under Overwatch, the Athena artificial intelligence system. In spite of taking the name of a deity, Athena was not a full god program in the traditional sense. In spite of the limited scope of the program's intelligence, Athena was able to optimize missions, providing detailed briefings and projected areas of potential conflict, way before any agents received intel on a task. The assistant proved successful in many missions and paved the road for further projects under Liao's guidance, albeit without truly removing safe lines around her research. Liao still grieved the loss of Aurora as her creator. In her eyes, the Omnics were Aurora's legacy, and she hoped the for equality between Humans and Omnics could one day be achieved. While she was not often a public speaker, her writings and interviews quickly positioned her as a powerful ally to the rising Omnic rights movement, for which she later joined in a handful of rallies and marches.
